Samra Solomon

Chocolate Pudding

Dessert

1 Cup Sugar
1/2 Cup Cocoa Powder
1/4 Cup Corn Starch
300 ml Milk
1 TBSP Vanilla

Add the sugar, cocoa powder and corn starch on a pot, stir over medium heat for 10 minutes.
Add milk to the pot and stir constantly until it thickens.
Remove from heat after it starts boiling, or let it boil for a minute.
Add Vanilla and stir.
Serve after 4 hrs of refrigeration.

Samra Solomon

Shiro

Stew

1 large Onion diced
1 large tomato diced
1 Medium Green pepper
2 Cloves of garlic minced
3 TBSP Oil
4 TBSP of Chickpea Flour, more if necessary
1 Liter water
2 TSP salt

Cook the onion, tomato, garlic and oil on a pot, on medium heat till golden brown
Add the water and bring it to boil
Add the chickpea flour while stirring the boiling water
Stir constantly until there is no lump
Add the green pepper and salt and close the lid
Let it cook on  medium heat for 20 minutes
Serve while hot

Samra Solomon

Italian styled Pasta Sauce

Sauce

1 TSP Finely Chopped Basil
1 TSP Finely Chopped Parsely
2 TBSP Oil
5 TBSP of Tomato Paste
2 TSP Salt
2 TSP Pepper
1 whole Pasta
3 Cups of water

Add the basil, parsely, oil to a pan
Let it cook till slightly brown
Remove the pan from heat and Add the tomato paste
Add water to paste until it has watery thickness, you don't need to add all of it
Add salt and black Pepper and let it cook for 7 to 10 minutes until it becomes thick
Boil water for the pasta, add oil and salt then add pasta until it gets cooked
Mix the sauce with pasta
Serve while hot or cool
Optional add cheese on top

Tony Baidoo

Ghana Waakye

Dish

5 1/2 cups white rice
2 Cups Black Eye Peas
10-12 pieces of millet or waakye leaves
1 TSP Baking soda
1 TSP Salt
5-7 Cups Water

Wash and soak beans overnight, or if in a hurry soak for 30 minutes
Strain the water and transfer the bean to cooking pot and add the waakye leaves, baking soda, 3 cups of water and stir
Keep stiring and Cook for 8 minutes
Wash the rice and add it to the pot also add 3 cups of water and salt
Cook rice for 10 minutes and remove the waakye leaves, fluff the rice with fork and cook for 10 more minutes
Fluff the rice with fork again, cover it with a paper towel until the rice is soft
Server with tomato stew, fried fish, boiled egg, gari, spaghetti, and shito on the size

Tony Baidoo

Groundnut Soup

Soup

2 Medium Onions, 1 chopped into pieces
5 Medium Cloves Garlic, Divided
28g Fresh Ginger (about a 1-inch knob), Divided
2 TSP Tomato Paste
2 Pounds Bone-In Chicken or Cow or Fresh Fish
3 Hot Chili Pepper,  Habanero, or Scotch Bonnet
1 Cup Creamy Unsweetened Peanut Butter
3 Medium Fresh/Plum Tomatoes
1 Whole Smoke-Dried Fish (Tilapia or Catfish)
3 TSP Salt
2TSP Round Black Pepper(optional)
2 Bay Leaves(optional)

In a Dutch oven or saucepan, mix peanut butter with water until a thick paste is form and it’s runny a bit.
Place peanut butter solution on medium heat.
Stir until the amount reduces and oil is formed on top. Make sure to stir it continuously to prevent it from getting burnt at the bottom of the pan.
Remove form heat and set aside to allow it cool down
In a blender, pour chopped onion, garlic cloves, ginger and chili pepper. Blend until a smooth consistency is formed.
Wash and cut your chicken or cow into desired sizes. Season meat with salt and seasoning powder
 In a Dutch oven or saucepan, combine chicken or cow or fish with blended ingredients, 1 onion, bay leaves and fresh tomatoes. Toss to coat.
Place Dutch oven or saucepan over high heat, cover and cook for about 10 minutes.
Reduce heat to low, and cook until onion and tomatoes are soft and tender for about 15 minutes.
Transfer onion and tomatoes into blender. Pulse until a smooth mixture is formed.
Pour over meat and allow it to simmer for about 5minutes. Wash and add your smoked fish
Add moderate amount of water to mix cooked peanut butter paste. Mix together until its combined.
Pour peanut butter mixture over meat. Then allow it to cook until chicken is tender and oil have surfaced on top of soup for about 25 minutes.
Remove and discard  bay leaves  and serve hot over white rice or fufu.

Samra Solomon

Misir

Stew

3 Cups Red Lentils
3 Medium Onions, finely chopped
3 Small Tomatoes, finely chopped
2 Garlic Clove, Minced
1/2 Cup Olive Oil
3 TBSP Berbere (Ethiopian Spice Mix)
2 TBSP Salt

Wash the lentil until there is clear water, then leave them in clean water.
Cook the onion, garlic and oil until golden brown.
Add the berbere, add 2 cups of water.
Let it cook until it thickens.
Add the tomatoes, let it cook until the water is absorbed.
Add the lentil, then add 3 cups of water with the salt.
Cook them until the lentils are really soft.
Serve while hot or cold.

Samra Solomon

Azifa

Snack 

2 Cups Cooked Green Lentils
4 Cups Water
1/2 Cup Chopped Onion
1 Cup Chopped Tomatoes
1 Large Clove Garlic, Minced
1 Jalapeño, seeds removed and minced
1/2 TSP Salt
1/2 TSP Black Pepper
1/2 Cup Lemon Juice
3 TBSP Olive Oil

Wash the lentil.
Cook the lentil with water and salt until they are soft.
Cook the onion, tomato, jalapeño and oil.
Mix the cooked vegetables and lentil.
Add the lemon juice and black pepper.
Let it all cook for 5 minutes while constantly stirring.
Serve while hot or cool.
